Learnt from this Linux Tutorial:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BMGixkvJ-6w


'ctrl+alt+t' open a new bash terminal.
'pwd' shows the full directory path you are on.

'ls' checks the content of the current directory, subdirectories are in blue, files are in white.
'ls -l' to get more information including file permissions, author name and group, size in bytes and the last modification date

'chmod' command

'cd' to enter into directories, specifying the directory name, use tab to autocomplete.
'cd ..' to return to the previous level.
'cd .' shows level you're on.

'mkdir NAME' to create a new directory (its empty) 
'touch FILENAME' to create a new empty file (txt)

'mv ./FILENAME ./DIRECTORY' to move file to specified directory.
'cp ./FILENAME ./DIRECTORY' to copy.
'cp -r' to copy an entire folder with contents.
'rm FILENAME' to remove file.
'rm -r NAME' to remove directory.

'cat FILENAME' to preview file content without opening.
'history' to get history of all commands executed so far in order.
'clear to clear whole terminal.
'./FILENAME' to execute file (may have to put in path).

'ln -s ./DIRECTORY/FILENAME' to create a shortcut, will have a blue colour.
'./FILENAME' to run it without having to put in path.

'find FILENAME' to find exact filename.
'find FILENAME*' to find all similiarly name files.

'vi FILENAME' to edit file (may have to put in path), to start editing press the i key to enter INSERT mode, use arrow keys to move and esc to come back to command mode.
IN EDITING MODE - 
'yy' to copy entire current line.
'p' to paste when cursor is on another line.
'u' to undo.
'/WORD' to seach for word from beginning.
'?WORD' to seach for word from the end.
':w' to save.
':q' to quit.

'df' to show current status of Linux.
'df -h' to check all in an easier way.

'ps aux' shows all applications in progress launched by users and super users.

'apt-get install aptitude' to install Aptitude.
'sudo PASSWORD apt-get install aptitude' if you need to login.
After Installation -
'sudo aptitude upgrade' to upgrade your existing packages.
'aptitude install PACKAGENAME' to install package. (may need to put sudo before all aptitude line i'm not sure)
'aptitude search KEYWORD' to search through linux packages (i letter shows its installed).

'man COMMAND' to get tips on all possible operations you can make with that command.
'u' to exit
Alternatively
'COMMAND --help' to get tips on command.